#summary A Quick overview how to get started.

= Introduction =

This document describes how to run the *_taslak_* application from scratch.

= Steps =

  * Checkout the project from SVN folowing the [http://code.google.com/p/taslak/source instructions].
  * *cd taslak*
  * type "mvn", this will download library files. A Build failure message will appear.
  * Run the HSQL database server using the following command
{{{
java -cp <MAVEN_REPOSITORY>/hsqldb/hsqldb/1.8.0.7/hsqldb-1.8.0.7.jar org.hsqldb.Server -database.0 file:taslak -dbname.0 taslak 
}}}
where, *<MAVEN_REPOSITORY>* is *{{{~/.m2/repository}}}* in Linux, and *{{{TODO}}}* in Windows systems.

  * run the command to create the database and insert sample data. 
{{{  
mvn -Dmaven.test.skip=true
}}}
  * We can now deploy our project by using maven-jetty-plugin.In the /taslak/web/ directory run the command:
{{{
mvn jetty:run-war -Dmaven.test.skip=true
}}}
  * You can now browse to the http://localhost:8080/. 
    * User name : *admin* 
    * Password  : *admin*

  * If you want to make jetty see the changes on the fly, you should follow these steps.
  
    * in the directory */taslak/* run the command *mvn war:inplace*
	* delete the directory */taslak/web/src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/lib*
	* remove the *struts.xml* file in */taslak/web/src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/classes/*
	* now you can deploy your application by the command *mvn jetty:run* in the */taslak/web/* directory.
	
== Additional Notes ==

  * If you alter anything in the /taslak/core/ directory, you should run the command under */taslak/core/* directory.
{{{
mvn install -Dmaven.test.skip=true
}}}
  * Now on the *web* module you can see the changes.

== Running Tests ==

If you would like to run the command above, you can simply remove the "-Dmaven.test.skip=true" parameter
 

